---
title: Discovering public passwords in Active Directory
date: 2023-08-03 +0200
tags: [Active Directory]
categories: [Active Directory]
---

Okay, so let's be clear, Active Directory (AD) is like a huge universe with numerous tiny planets representing every user, group, and computer object. And just like our universe, AD too has its share of mysteries. Today, I'll talk about a peculiar one - public passwords hiding in user's account description fields. Yep, you read it right!

## Passwords In Disguise
So, this situation is pretty rare, just like spotting an albino zebra. But it can happen. Over the years, a few naughty or simply forgetful administrators might have saved passwords in plaintext in AD public text fields, specifically in the description fields. Crazy, right?

## Introducing the Needle Finder: Crumby
But what if we could automate this search? Sounds good, right? Enter Crumby, a simple tool that I've been fiddling with. Crumby, in a nutshell, scans through the AD environment, hunting down those rogue plaintext passwords and even sprays them against all accounts for possible matches.

Now, before you start thinking that Crumby is some high-tech, intricate tool, let me assure you - it's not! It's as straightforward as it gets. But hey, even the simplest of tools can be potent when used right!

## Using Crumby - Simplicity at its Best
- Clone the repository : `git clone https://github.com/yaceno/Crumby`
- Install the requirements : `pip install requirements.txt`
- You have different options :
    - -s SERVER, --server SERVER : Server adress
    - -a AUTH, --auth AUTH : Name and password (separated by :) of the account we want to connect to
    - -d DOMAIN, --domain DOMAIN : The domain name
    - -sp : For spraying the passwords found (not required)
- Launch it with python ! Example : 
```shell
python3 src/crumby.py -s 192.168.0.40 -a morgan.chloris:morgan123 -d cs.org -sp
```